## closures

Ok, that's a lot of code. The correct answer was `xyz2`. Let's take a look at this code snippet and dissect it to make things a little clearer for ourselves.

What's a closure? A closure is created anytime you intialize a function inside of another function. The big concept to grasp here is that the inner function has a reference to the context in which it was created.

Let's see a super simple example.

```
function robot(name) {
    var name = 'My name is ' + name;
    return function() {
        console.log(name);
    }
}

var mattbot = robot('Matt');
mattbot();
```

This line `var mattbot = robot('Matt');` calls the `robot` function which returns the anonymous function. We call `mattbot` which is a pointer to this anonymous function. The anonymous function has access to the local variables defined inside of `robot`. They have not been wiped away by the garbage collector even though the parent function they were defined in has already returned. These local variables are said to be kept in a *closure*.

It is important to understand that variables within a closure **are not copied**. They are kept by reference. 


In the main question, we expected the output to be the employee IDs with incremented counters. But instead they *both* returned `xyz2`. This happened because the `i` we were referencing inside the for loop was available in the closure but by the time we called our anonymous function, the loop had finished and `i` was set to 2.

*Quick aside.* For loops in javascript assign variables more or less like this:
 
```
var i = 0;
for (; i < 9; i++) {
    console.log(i); // prints 0 through 8
}
console.log(i) // 9
```
 
So, our loop looped. The `i` variable ultimately ended up being 2 when we went back to call our anonymous function.
 
How could we obtain the expected output here? We can wrap the function we are calling in an IIFE to *freeze* the variable in place. The IIFE executes in place during every loop-over. At this point it passes the **current** `i` as `id`. Now our anonymous function is within another closure, this time with the local `id` set to the expected numbers.

```
function giveIds(employees) {
    var idPrefix = 'xyz';
    for(var i = 0; i < employees.length; i++) {
        // here is the important stuff!
        employees[i].getId = function(id){
        	return function() {
          	  return idPrefix + id
        	}
        }(i)
        // end: important stuff
    }
}

var employees = [
    { name: 'Frank' },
    { name: 'Dennis' }
];

var newEmployees = giveIds(employees)
console.log(employees[1].getId()) // xyz1
console.log(employees[0].getId()) // xyz0
```

[A lot of this was taken from here.](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/111102/how-do-javascript-closures-work)